We'll now introduce the current state of the art in
feature importance which is called Shapley Additive Explanations.
This method calculates something called Shapley values,
and is based on coalition game theory.
But first, let's get some intuition about
this method of measuring feature importance with an example.
If you have a basketball team with three players A, B, and C,
how would you determine how much each player contributes to the final score of the team?
Well, one way to check how player A
contributes is to see how the team performs with player A,
and see how the team performs without player A.
We can actually try every sequence of players,
either with or without player A and measure the impact of player A as
the difference between the team's performance with or without player A.
This is the mean intuition of Shapley Additive Explanations.
We estimate how important a feature is by seeing how well the model performs
with and without that feature for every combination of features.
Note also that Shapley Additive Explanations computes local feature importance for
every observation which is different from the method used in
Scikit-learn which computes global feature importance.
You can imagine that the importance of
a feature may not be the same for every data point.
So, local feature importance calculates
the importance of each feature for each data point.
Global feature importance refers to a single ranking of features for the model.
You may be wondering,
when it might help to calculate local feature importance on a single data point?
One example is when a model is used to accept or deny
a loan application where each data point is an individual person.
Companies that make loan decisions,
can identify the main features that the model used in
deciding whether to accept or reject an individual's loan application.
This is important to ensure fairness and transparency.
For our purposes, we'll just use global feature importance and we can
aggregate local feature importances into global feature importance,
which you'll see how to do later in the lesson